Now, we take a closer look at how big data technology affect the data warehousing
or the aspects of big data technology that had a direct effect on data warehouse.
The first thing is that the low cost of storage.
Actually, once big data technologies were made
mainstream or we can say gained industrial grounds,
the idea that you have the same hardware for storage and processing
made it very attractive to take this ETL here,
which traditionally was an ETL grid,
was storage and processing nodes and replace that with a big data cluster.
It's not the biggest big data cluster,
but actually it provided a very nice and easier to manage alternative for that.
So, that became known as ETL offloading.
The dimensional model practice was still the same normally,
but the only thing maybe that changed is not only that this replaced the ETL,
the big data cluster, is that there was a little bit of room.
So, this was cheap to get some data which is
a little bit of low or unknown value or you could even say of non-value,
but it would have been very expensive to put it in
the dimensional model store in those expensive MVPs then we can put them here as well.
So, a little bit of ETL replacement and
also adding storage into the warehouse with less cost.